.TH "realtime" "1"
.SH NAME
realtime \- manage real-time configuration of systemd services
.SH SYNOPSIS
realtime [
.B -c
]
[
.B -v
]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Clean generated configuration, if any, and exit.
.TP
.B -v
Turn on verbose mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The utility generates drop-ins that allow services to assign real-time budget according to configuration.
.PP
First,
.B /etc/systemd/system/realtime-start.service
is created, which is necessary to initiate
.B realtime.slice
, which in turn is used as a root process group (cgroup) for services that need
real-time bugdet. All services managed by this utility are placed under it.
The
.B realtime-start.service
is started automatically and
.B realtime.slice
is assigned the default bugdet, called runtime_us, which is 950000 us.
.PP
Next, service drop-ins are generated according to configuration. Any drop-ins created during previous runs
are discarded.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.B /etc/systemd/realtime.conf
and from
.B /etc/systemd/realtime.cond.d/*.conf
and is expected to be in the following format:

    <service 1> : <runtime_us 1>
    <service 2> : <runtime_us 2>
    ...

Service names can be specified with or without the ".service" suffix.
Any empty lines are ignored. Items can be separated by any amount of white space.

Configuration files located in
.B /etc/systemd/realtime.conf.d/
are read in alphabetical order and must end with
\fB.conf\fR. If a service is assigned value multiple times, the last value updates the previous ones.

Note that the sum of all runtime_us values cannot be higher than runtime_us value set for realtime.slice.

.SH EXAMPLE
# cat /etc/systemd/realtime.conf

    cups  : 100000
    tftp  : 250000
    httpd : 400000

# cat /etc/systemd/realtime.conf.d/vsftpd.conf

    vsftpd : 200000

# realtime -v

    2018/08/13 10:43:24 creating /etc/systemd/system/vsftpd.service.d/99-realtime.conf for vsftpd.service
    2018/08/13 10:43:24 creating /etc/systemd/system/cups.service.d/99-realtime.conf for cups.service
    2018/08/13 10:43:24 creating /etc/systemd/system/tftp.service.d/99-realtime.conf for tftp.service
    2018/08/13 10:43:24 creating /etc/systemd/system/httpd.service.d/99-realtime.conf for httpd.service
    2018/08/13 10:43:24 reloading systemd


# systemctl start tftp

# systemctl status tftp

    ...
    Drop-In: /etc/systemd/system/tftp.service.d
             └─99-realtime.conf
    ...
    CGroup: /realtime.slice/tftp.service
            └─1879 /usr/sbin/in.tftpd -s /var/lib/tftpboot
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Synáček <jsynacek@redhat.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/scheduler/sched-rt-group.txt
